We loaded up this real PCD.
Now, we're going to be filtering.
We're going to be doing these filtering techniques using
the PCL libraries felt and functions.
This is the idea is we have this massive point Cloud data with 120,000 points,
we're going to be filtering it down,
we're going to downsample it.
We don't need that high of resolution if we don't have to,
because the fewer points that we have, the faster processing.
If we have a lot more points,
it's going to take longer the process,
and also there's going to be a certain region that we're interested in.
I don't really care if we can see at the very edge of our scene,
but what's really important is the road environment.
So the width of the road and maybe say 30 meters out from the front of
the car and maybe even behind the car is not as important as
the front maybe 10 years or so behind your car.
But we'll be looking at this box region.
What's important is that box region contains things that are in the proximity of the car,
and those are things that we want to be able to label as obstacles,
and we don't want to have any collisions with.
So in this next exercise,
we're going to be filling in this filtering function.
How are we doing the filtering?
We're actually going to use something called a VoxelGrid filter.
So we want to reduce the number of points in our Cloud,
so we can process faster.
A VoxelGrid is basically this cubic grid that,
so we have these 3D grid and each cell is going
to filter to the Cloud so that we only have a single point per cell.
What does that mean? So that means that the bigger
our grid size or bigger our cell size in our grid,
the fewer points we're going to end up with,
because every cell can only have one point.
So it's specifying a resolution for our point Cloud.
Let's say if we have this VoxelGrid and we have
this cell that was one meter by one meter by one meter,
this cube, then we have this resolution,
so every one meter, we have a point.
Well, that's going to be pretty poor resolution point Cloud,
but you could actually go and say,
well, maybe it's 100 centimeters instead or something like that.
So that's how this VoxelGrid filter is going to work.
Then another thing that we're going to be utilizing is this a boxed region of interest.
We're going to be using some PCL built-in functions for doing this,
but the idea is that we just care about this box region that maybe contains the road,
maybe some pieces of the sidewalk,
and it has some area to it,
and we only care about points within that area,
because our LIDAR can pick up things as far as
120 meters out from the very edge of our scene and
not all of that's going to be completely irrelevant for doing
the immediate detection of obstacles right in our proximity.
So the filter function is actually contained in point processor,
and then you can go ahead and call the filter function from inside environment.cpp.
Let's go ahead and look over some documentation before doing the filtering.